# 24/05/2026

### What I worked on:
Created a local installation of CVAT inside a Docker container (following https://docs.cvat.ai/docs/administration/community/basics/installation/) and tested it with 20 images taken last week.

Followed a tutorial (https://youtu.be/Bzv58L6xYGc?si=ja5fr0z_VhxklMXU) to use CVAT and export the annotated images into a format that a YOLOv8 model can use, and created a test model for only silver balls following documentation (https://docs.ultralytics.com/modes/predict).

Tested the model using live camera feed from Raspberry Pi inside a real rescue zone.


### Reflection
When initially annotating with CVAT, I tried to annotate with ellipses, since balls are elipses and it would theoretically improve model accuracy, but YOLO only supports rectangles.

I later had issues with files not being found by YOLO, which I fixed by adding proper relative paths using the built in os module.

### Decisions made
- YOLOv8s (small model) chosen for good balance between speed and accuracy
- CVAT seems to work really well, and is intuitive to use, so I will use it when annotating the actual larger dataset. 
- I decided to make a local install of CVAT so that I don't need to upload or download files, saving some time in the future, and it doesn't require internet whilst running locally in Docker, so I can annotate images at any time.
- Weights are saved as a .pt file (pytorch), however the Hailo NPU on the Raspberry Pi requires a .hef file, which has to be compiled on a native linux environment, aka the Pi.
- I will run the camera at a relatively low framerate (10 or 24fps) to reduce the load on the Pi, so that everything else can still run smoothly.

### Testing notes
- YOLOv8 small model with 20 annotated images (16 testing, 4 validation) over 100 epochs:
    - Outputted a best.pt and last.pt, I will use best.pt for on-robot testing
    - Outputted many graphs into ml_training/runs/detect/train which are useful in analysing model accuracy
    - Results.png reveals model was fairly inaccurate until epoch 50, when validation loss suddenly increased in accuracy (memorised the data?)
    - Training loss was a fairly smooth curve, hence model increased in accuracy smoothly, and 100 epochs is probably ideal for 20 images.
- Physical testing with Raspberry Pi video stream, very low confidence but it was detecting the ball some of the time. Low accuracy was expected due to minimal training.

### AI log uses
- Google AI Overview: Researching which YOLOv8 model to use (based on hardware) and how post-training workflow will work: Training on mac (.pt) -> Export to .onnx -> RPi -> Compile to .hef