# 11/05/2026

### What I worked on:
Started properly coding, set up a virtual machine (vm) using UTM to run Linux Ubuntu on my mac for local testing. Followed the tutorial for ~35minutes, and made a test publisher and subscriber which I successfully ran in my vm.
Attempted to make a working lifecycle node (node which controls when other nodes are active) which will turn on/off certain functionalities when they needed/not needed during rescue. Also set up repository according to marking criteria with journal, design and tests directories.

### Reflection
I was having trouble with setting up the vm, especially with sharing files between my mac and the simulated linux environment. Eventually, I managed to set the repository on my mac as the shared directory with the vm, meaning that I can code within VSC in MacOS, and directly test those changes within Linux straight away, which will dramatically speed up testing.

### Decisions made
Design or implementation choices you settled on, and your reasoning
I have the choice between coding in Python or C++, but I will use Python as I am more familiar with it, and learning ROS and C++ at the same time wouldn't be a good idea. I will be using a Linux vm for testing as ROS doesn't run natively on MacOS, and it will allow me to test individual nodes very easily.

### Testing notes
While testing my basic publisher and subscriber setup, I successfully was able to have a publisher and subscriber node running in two terminal windows in the Ubuntu vm, sending and receiving packets of data.

### AI log use
N/A
