# 18/05/2026

### What I worked on:
This week, I started working on taking photos to train the machine learning model. I also worked on documentation, starting the technology research, and spent some time looking at different tools that I could use for labelling the training data to speed up the process of labelling. I also spent some time working out how to mirror the actual repository (toby-software-rescue) to the assigned repository, so that it is identical.

### Reflection
Whilst attempting to take photos on the Pi, I kept running into many issues. I had to change what package I was using to take photos, since the first package I tried kept giving errors, and wasn't installing properly. Once I was past that, I realised that the image was flipped 180 degrees, since the camera is mounted upside down on the robot. Fortunately, this was a relatively simple configuration fix.

### Decisions made
I need the images to be as similar to real competition conditions as possible, and for that reason I decided to use a dead pcb as a dummy robot, and mount all of the components on to the dummy robot, including a Raspberry Pi 5b and Raspberry Pi Camera Module 3 (Wide), which I used to take the photos for ML training.
I am planning on using a software called CVAT (Computer Vision Annotation Tool) to assist in labelling training data, as it can run locally in a containerised environment, and can export directly to the format needed for YOLOv8.

### Testing notes
- Camera feed upside down, need to flip horizontally and vertically
- Slow framerate over VNC connection, instead of manually taking photos I could take a photo every x seconds.
### AI log use
Google AI Overview for debugging camera issues, specifically relating to import errors and package errors. It summarised solutions from multiple web forums and provided some options to try and resolve the issues.