# 01/06/2026

### What I worked on:
I properly set up a vision node which subscribes to the front camera publisher, and then should in theory perform inference on the image from the camera, and for testing I set up a publisher to display the image with cv2. I then tried to download the proprietary Hailo Dataflow Compiler on my laptop, but ran in to a lot of issues with it.

### Reflection
The largest problem this week is Hailo's proprietary software and architecture. If I wanted to run a premade model on the NPU, it would be very easy, however compiling my own model is quite complex and requires a Linux computer running x86_64 architecture, which I don't have access to at home. I tried many workarounds, including running it in a Linux vm on my laptop, installing it on the Raspberry Pi, and running it on Docker on my laptop. Emulating x86_64 architecture with Docker on my laptop would be possible, but unusably slow. For whatever reason, the only place to download Hailo's software is their website, which is extremely buggy and would only work on a Chromium based browser in an Incognito tab, and the installation process included running a shell script which would only run on Linux. The solution was to use a Windows computer running a Linux docker container, and using a workaround for the shell script (https://medium.com/@mgreiner79/how-to-run-hailo-dataflow-compiler-using-docker-on-windows-8442a0215c53 + https://pub.towardsai.net/custom-dataset-with-hailo-ai-hat-yolo-raspberry-pi-5-and-docker-0d88ef5eb70f)

### Decisions made
Design or implementation choices you settled on, and your reasoning
Hailo Dataflow Compiler only works in an Ubuntu environment on a x86_64 architecture computer with at least 16GB of ram, hence I had to use a Windows computer running Docker in order to compile my ml model into a .hef file.

### Testing notes
Any testing you performed and what you found

### AI log use
For every AI session: tool used, purpose, output received, and how you evaluated and adapted it
